Add HOWTO for using the API - plus some code fixes. (#2)
OS2mo/os2phonebook: backend/docs/development_docs/api_requests_per_screen.rst

Mapping of backend requests (SOLR queries) to application screens
=================================================================

This document describes how to get the data necessary for displaying the
various pages in the phone book mockup. The document will refer to the
mockups for the web version. These mockups may be found in the same
directory as the present document, in the file
``OS2-telefonbog_webversion.pdf``.

The document follows the mockups, describing the necessary queries page
by page. 

In these examples, the backend (an SOLR server) is assumed to be running
on localhost (``127.0.0.1``) and port 8983. In production, this will be
different, and the URLs should be adjusted accordingly.

> **Note:** For more advanced search combinations than described in this

Reviewer: There's a [neat feature](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#note) called admonitions you can use here 🙂

> document, there's this quick tutorial:

Reviewer: I was once told by an English native speaker that they consider the passive voice “weak”…

```suggestion
document, see this quick tutorial:
```

    http://www.solrtutorial.com/solr-query-syntax.html

For more information, please consult the SOLR reference manual:

    http://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/7_5/overview-of-searching-in-solr.html#overview-of-searching-in-solr

It is possible to combine query parameters in many ways not described
above.

Here, only the SOLR search syntax specifically needed to reproduce the
searches in the mockups is given. Suffice it to say that the full
SOLR/Lucene search syntax has many more features than covered here.

Front page
==========

Root organisation
-----------------

To get the name of the root organisation ("Ballerup Kommune" in the
example), you have two options.

In the first case, you rely on the assumption that this organisation has
one root organisation unit only. In that case, you can search for the
single root node, denoted by having its "parent" field set to the value
"ROOT": ::

   http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/departments/select?q=parent:ROOT

> If you cannot make that assumption, e.g. because there are more than one

Reviewer: We expect the common case to be more than one root unit — so I'd switch these around and describe the case of more than one root first.

Unless, of course, your importer allows restricting the import to a subtree — which might make sense.

        "id":"38bbb6ad-d31f-4381-aa88-61be37f70d8c",
        "_version_":1616659562091249664}]
     }}

Of course, there will be the number of ``docs`` corresponding to the
``numFound`` parameter in the ``response``.

In the present example, there is only one document and the name to be
dislayed is simply "Hjørring".  The members are, apart from the obvious
ones, to be interpreted like this:

* ``locations`` are addresses and can be of type ``DAR``, ``EMAIL``
  and ``PHONE``. The list contains a list of addresses that are to be
  interpreted as couples, *(type, value)*.
* ``employees`` correspond to ``engagement`` in MO. They are four-tuples,
  *(name, UUID, engagement type, job function)*.
* ``departments`` are the children of the current node, i.e. the
  subsections etc. They are couples, *(name, UUID)*.
* ``associated`` correspond to ``association`` in MO. They are
  four-tuples, *(name, UUID, association type, job function)*.
* ``managers`` correspond to ``manager`` in MO and are triplets,
  *(manager type, name, UUID)*.

**NOTE:** The UUIs for employees, associated and managers are the person
UUIDs, found under the MO API's ``/e/`` section.

Employees
.........

> The "wrapping" with response headers etc. is like for departments. A

Reviewer: Awkward phrasage; this sentence doesn't parse.

typical "doc" for a person could be: ::

    {
        "uuid":["cee8800a-983d-41fa-998c-b4557d68ec35"],
        "name":["Anna Bjerre Reidl"],
        "locations":["PHONE",
          "21557342",
          "DAR",
          "Strandgårdsvej 16, Skallerup Klit, 9800 Hjørring",
          "EMAIL",
          "annar@hjorring.dk"],
        "departments":["IT-Support",
          "d3a9e589-5be0-4d28-95af-5d24ac42a2e9",
          "Ansat",
          "Specialist"],
        "managing":["Direktør",
          "IT-Support",
          "d3a9e589-5be0-4d28-95af-5d24ac42a2e9"],
        "id":"e6207b7c-6204-44e2-8839-277694589883",
        "_version_":1616933478548373504
    }

> This record has the following non-trivial members:

Reviewer: FWIW you haven't defined what “non-trivial” means…

* ``locations`` - this works as for departments.
* ``departments`` - corresponds to ``engagement`` in MO. These are
  to be interpreted as four-tuples consisting of *(department name,
  UUID, engagement type, job function)*. Departments in which the person
  is *employed*.
* ``associated`` - corresponds to ``association`` in MO and organized as
  ``departments``. Departments to which the person is associated.
  Association type might e.g. be "Konsulent".
  (tilknyttet).
* ``managing`` - the departments which the user is managing. These are
  triplets consisting of *(department name, UUID, manager type)*.
  Manager type might e.g. be "Afdelingsleder" or "Direktør".

Subdepartments/sections
-----------------------

The names and UUIDs of the departments/sections immediately under the
root may be found in the root doc's ``department`` member, as described
above. 
    
You can access the full data (including phone numbers, etc.) for each of
these subdepartments by doing a query for the corresponding UUID, as we
did with the root department.

Display results (general query)
===============================

> There are two separate URLs for searching departments, basically ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two separate URLs allow searching for departments or employees::
```
“Basically” seems redundent — unless you have more. Also, “there are” is passive tense…

    http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/employees/

    http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/departments/

> To search for *persons* or *employees* in all supported fields, write

Reviewer: Where did “persons” come from? Perhaps something like this:
```suggestion
To search for *employees* — that is, persons — in all supported fields, write
```

> (e.g., searching for the name "Eva"): ::

Reviewer: This sentence feels weird; you should probably swap the parts and get rid of the parentheses.

    http://127.0.0.1:8983/solr/employees/select?q=name:Eva%20locations:Eva%20departments:Eva%20associated:Eva%20managing:Eva

> I.e., this is an explicit search for the string in all of the fields

Reviewer: Redundant:

```suggestion
This is an explicit search for the string in all of the fields
```

that are supported for employees. 

In order to search for *departments* in all fields, we do the
corresponding search on the departments URL. 

> Since all employees (persons, Users in LoRa) are indexed under the employees URL

Reviewer: You should include the explanation earlier, the first time you use the term.

```suggestion
Since all employees (persons, Users in LoRa) are indexed under the employees URL
```
